git_references.md, before:

# git references

## create repository
1. Create repository on GitHub with a new name
2. In local location where you want the folder use, do

* ``git init``

## add a change to git
* ``git add <filename>``
* ``git commit -m "comment on change added"``

## add change to github repo
* ``git push origin <main>``
** ``<main>`` is the branch name

## add a new remote to git repo
* ``git remote add <unique-remote-name> <remote-url>``
* from https://articles.assembla.com/en/articles/1136998-how-to-add-a-new-remote-to-your-git-repo#:~:text=To%20add%20a%20new%20remote%2C%20use%20the%20git%20remote%20add,tab%20of%20your%20Git%20repo

## origin and upstream differences on git with branches
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9257533/what-is-the-difference-between-origin-and-upstream-on-github
* https://devconnected.com/how-to-set-upstream-branch-on-git/
* Set upstream branch using `git push -u`:
    `git push -u <remote> <branch>`
* Alternatively, use `--set-upstream`:
    `git push --set-upstream <remote> <branch>`
* Switching to new branch `'branch'`:
    `git checkout -b branch`
* Check tracking of all branches:
    `git branch -vv`

## change the URL on a remote git repository
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2432764/how-to-change-the-uri-url-for-a-remote-git-repository
        
        git remote -v
        # View existing remotes
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (fetch)
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (push)
        
        git remote set-url origin https://github.com/user/repo2.git
        # Change the 'origin' remote's URL
        
        git remote -v
        # Verify new remote URL
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo2.git (fetch)
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo2.git (push)

## tutorials and more advanced branching
* 'Git Feature Branch Workflow' https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow
* 'Git Branching - Basic Branching and Merging' https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging

## merging branches after fetch
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14513278/git-merge-after-fetch-how-exactly
* `git merge origin/master` should work. Since  master   is usually a tracking branch, you could also do `git pull` from that branch and it will do a fetch & merge for you.

    If you have local changes on your `master` that aren't reflected on `origin`, you might want `git rebase origin/master` to make sure your commits are 'on top'.
    Do one or the other, not both. Which to choose depends on the outcome you're after, but rebase is usually what you want.

## editing .gitignore
* https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/gitignore
* `echo file >> .gitignore`

## removing deleted file from `git status`
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12987907/git-how-to-commit-a-manually-deleted-file
* `git rm file`

Commit message:

Added push/pull multiple locations
Added push/pull from multiple remote locations.

git_references.md, after:

# git references

## create repository
1. Create repository on GitHub with a new name
2. In local location where you want the folder use, do

* ``git init``

## add a change to git
* ``git add <filename>``
* ``git commit -m "comment on change added"``

## add change to github repo
* ``git push origin <main>``
** ``<main>`` is the branch name

## add a new remote to git repo
* ``git remote add <unique-remote-name> <remote-url>``
* from https://articles.assembla.com/en/articles/1136998-how-to-add-a-new-remote-to-your-git-repo#:~:text=To%20add%20a%20new%20remote%2C%20use%20the%20git%20remote%20add,tab%20of%20your%20Git%20repo

## origin and upstream differences on git with branches
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9257533/what-is-the-difference-between-origin-and-upstream-on-github
* https://devconnected.com/how-to-set-upstream-branch-on-git/
* Set upstream branch using `git push -u`:
    `git push -u <remote> <branch>`
* Alternatively, use `--set-upstream`:
    `git push --set-upstream <remote> <branch>`
* Switching to new branch `'branch'`:
    `git checkout -b branch`
* Check tracking of all branches:
    `git branch -vv`

## change the URL on a remote git repository
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2432764/how-to-change-the-uri-url-for-a-remote-git-repository
        
        git remote -v
        # View existing remotes
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (fetch)
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo.git (push)
        
        git remote set-url origin https://github.com/user/repo2.git
        # Change the 'origin' remote's URL
        
        git remote -v
        # Verify new remote URL
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo2.git (fetch)
        # origin  https://github.com/user/repo2.git (push)

## tutorials and more advanced branching
* 'Git Feature Branch Workflow' https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow
* 'Git Branching - Basic Branching and Merging' https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging

## merging branches after fetch
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14513278/git-merge-after-fetch-how-exactly
* `git merge origin/master` should work. Since  master   is usually a tracking branch, you could also do `git pull` from that branch and it will do a fetch & merge for you.

    If you have local changes on your `master` that aren't reflected on `origin`, you might want `git rebase origin/master` to make sure your commits are 'on top'.
    Do one or the other, not both. Which to choose depends on the outcome you're after, but rebase is usually what you want.

## push/pull from multiple remote locations
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/849308/how-can-i-pull-push-from-multiple-remote-locations
* You can configure multiple remote repositories with the `git remote` command:
            `git remote add alt alt-machine:/path/to/repo`
To fetch from all the configured remotes and update tracking branches, but not merge into `HEAD`, do:
            `git remote update`
If it's not currently connected to one of the remotes, it will take time out or throw an error, and go on to the next. You'll have to manually merge from the fetched repositories, or `cherry-pick`, depending on how you want to organize collecting changes.

To fetch the master branch from alt and pull it into your current head, do:
            `git pull alt master`
So in fact `git pull` is almost shorthand for `git pull origin HEAD` (actually it looks in the config file to determine this, but you get the idea).

For pushing updates, you have to do that to each repo manually.
A push was, I think, designed with the central-repository workflow in mind.



## editing .gitignore
* https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/gitignore
* `echo file >> .gitignore`

## removing deleted file from `git status`
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12987907/git-how-to-commit-a-manually-deleted-file
* `git rm file`
